doc: state that removing npm is a non-goal (#51951)
nodejs/node: doc/contributing/technical-priorities.md

As TypeScript usage continues to grow and gains more prominence in the
ecosystem, enhancing its support is essential for delivering an improved
developer experience for newcomers and experienced users alike.

## Package management

The ability to easily install and manage dependencies and development tools is a
key part of the user experience, and for that reason Node.js must provide a
package manager as part of its distribution. Node.js includes `npm` for this
purpose. This is for historical reasons — when `npm` was added in 2011, it was
the only JavaScript package manager — and because it is the reference
implementation for the npm registry, which is the de facto primary source for

> most JavaScript software. In accordance with our [policy][distribution-policy]
> of not including multiple dependencies or tools that serve the same purpose, the
> Node.js project does not include any other package managers.
> 
> [distribution-policy]: ./distribution.md

Reviewer: I guess we could simply remove that sentence if folks find it confusing.
```suggestion
most JavaScript software.
```

Author: No, this is one of the key parts of the PR, stating that we don’t plan to include other package managers. We could change “include” to “vendor” perhaps, or add language like “the Node.js project does not include any other package managers, though it may include software to download other package managers.”

Reviewer: Sure but it's already covered by the distribution policy, it's not something this PR is adding. If you think it's important for clarification purposes, let's go all-in on clarification
```suggestion
most JavaScript software. In accordance with our [policy][distribution-policy]
of not including multiple dependencies or tools that serve the same purpose, the
Node.js distribution does not include any other package managers, and include
Corepack that can let users use other package managers.

[distribution-policy]: ./distribution.md
```

Author: But npm can also install other package managers. We don’t need to mention Corepack specifically here, and that’s outside the scope of this PR.

```suggestion
most JavaScript software. In accordance with our [policy][distribution-policy]
of not including multiple dependencies or tools that serve the same purpose, the
Node.js project does not include any other package managers; though it may
include software to download other package managers.

[distribution-policy]: ./distribution.md
```

Reviewer: I don't understand why mentioning npm is important, but not Corepack tbh
```suggestion
most JavaScript software. In accordance with our [policy][distribution-policy]
of not including multiple dependencies or tools that serve the same purpose, the
Node.js project does not include any other package managers; though it may
include other softwares to download other package managers.

[distribution-policy]: ./distribution.md
```

Author: Because the point of this PR is npm 😄 

```suggestion
most JavaScript software. In accordance with our [policy][distribution-policy]
of not including multiple dependencies or tools that serve the same purpose, the
Node.js project does not include any other package managers; though it may
include other software to download other package managers.

[distribution-policy]: ./distribution.md
```

Reviewer 2: > this PR aims to help clarify the goals of Corepack

As TypeScript usage continues to grow and gains more prominence in the
ecosystem, enhancing its support is essential for delivering an improved
developer experience for newcomers and experienced users alike.

> ## Non-goals

Reviewer: Can we use some other word that "goal" please? Also it would help if it was phrased in a positive form (instead of "removing npm is not a priority", "npm users DX is a priority" or something like that)

Author: What would you propose? “npm users DX is a priority” is nowhere near specific enough to rule out unbundling npm. One could argue that Corepack managing npm is “improving npm users’ DX,” for example.

Reviewer: Well, I'm suggesting to not rule out the unbundling of npm.

Author: No, that's the point of this PR 😄  If you want to block it, that's fine.

Reviewer: Could you make the goal of the PR to document the consensus instead? That should lead to more productive discussions.

Author: That is the goal of this PR. I think I'm documenting the current consensus (or more precisely, the majority view).

We could have two PRs, one for each option, that are each blocked; but I'm not sure that's more efficient. If the TSC votes on this and the blocks aren't overturned, we can open the inverse thereafter and there shouldn't be any reason to block or vote on it because we'll have already settled the question.

Author: I think I’m going to mark as resolved because it’s not clear to me what else I can do to address your concern. My goal is not to document an amorphous goal like “improve DX for npm users.” My goal is to settle the question of whether or not we plan to remove npm in the near term.

If you’d like to suggest specific alternative text that aligns with my goal, please feel free to unresolve.

Reviewer 3: One way I have seen this kind of thing phrased well is to use the "non-goal" as a "vs alternative" to clarify the intent. We use this at work in the form of "bets", but I think it would work well here called "goals". Something like:

```
# Goals

1. Providing a single package manager with stable DX is a priority (vs. providing many or none)
```

That way we are are still getting the point across and are clearly saying "not ship multiple" without having all the negativity.

> The ability to easily install and manage dependencies and development tools is a

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The ability to easily install and manage dependencies and development tools is a
key part of the user experience, and for that reason Node.js must provide a
package manager as part of its distribution. Node.js includes `npm` for this
purpose and currently has no intentions to change this. This is for historical reasons
— when `npm` was added in 2011, it was
the only JavaScript package manager — and because it is the reference
implementation for the npm registry, which is the de facto primary source for
most JavaScript software.
```

* **Unbundling `npm`**. When `npm` was included in the Node.js distribution, it
  was the only JavaScript package manager available, and it was provided as a
  way to help developers easily install other JavaScript software. `npm` is also

>   the reference implementation for the `npm` registry, which is the de facto

Reviewer: nit: I suggest we use "`npm`" to refer to the binary (the npm client), and "npm" otherwise
```suggestion
  the reference implementation for the npm registry, which is the de facto
```

> The ability to easily install and manage dependencies and development tools is a
> key part of the user experience, and for that reason Node.js must provide a
> package manager as part of its distribution. Node.js includes `npm` for this
> purpose. This is for historical reasons — when `npm` was added in 2011, it was
> the only JavaScript package manager — and because it is the reference
> implementation for the npm registry, which is the de facto primary source for
> most JavaScript software. In accordance with our [policy][distribution-policy]
> of not including multiple dependencies or tools that serve the same purpose, the
> Node.js project does not include any other package managers; though it may
> include other software to download other package managers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The ability to easily install and manage dependencies and development tools is a
key part of the user experience, and for that reason Node.js must provide a
package manager as part of its distribution. Node.js includes `npm` for this
purpose and currently has no intentions to change this. This is for historical reasons
— when `npm` was added in 2011, it was
the only JavaScript package manager — and because it is the reference
implementation for the npm registry, which is the de facto primary source for
most JavaScript software.
```

Reviewer 5: After talking to @GeoffreyBooth, we decided to open a follow up PR for this proposed change. Thank you for your help @GeoffreyBooth @mhdawson

>   not a goal of the Node.js project to work toward such a goal. The `npm`
>   library included with the Node.js distribution can be freely used as a
>   dependency of other parts of the Node.js distribution.

Reviewer: We don't expose a library, do we?
```suggestion
  not a goal of the Node.js project to work toward such a goal.
```

Author: If we implement https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/51931, the most straightforward solution that I can think of would be use the npm that’s provided as part of the distribution. Like for example, when you run `corepack enable`, it creates `/usr/local/bin/yarn` that’s a symlink to `../lib/node_modules/corepack/dist/yarn.js` and contains:

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node
require('./corepack').runMain(['yarn', ...process.argv.slice(2)]);
```

To implement https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/51931, one way would be to have `/usr/local/bin/yarn` be a script with something like `require('../lib/node_modules/npm/bin/npm-cli.js')` to access npm and then use it to install Corepack and/or Yarn/pnpm.

An objection to https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/51931 was that this potential implementation creates a dependency on npm. I think that should not be a valid objection, since we’re not planning on unbundling npm. And of course, nothing is permanent; if we land https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/51931 and afterward decide we want to unbundle npm, then as part of removing npm we would need to reimplement https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/51931 to not depend on npm. But I think that’s fine, since it seems unlikely that we would want to unbundle npm anytime soon.

ecosystem, enhancing its support is essential for delivering an improved
developer experience for newcomers and experienced users alike.

## Package management

The ability to easily install and manage dependencies and development tools is a

> key part of the developer experience, and therefore Node.js must provide a

Reviewer: Wouldn't "developer experience" refer to the experience of maintainers when we mean "users of Node.js (who are developers)"?
```suggestion
key part of the user experience, and for that reason Node.js must provide a
```

Author: I consider them interchangeable, but sure, either is fine with me.

> package manager as part of its distribution. Node.js includes npm for this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
package manager as part of its distribution. Node.js includes `npm` for this
```

> purpose. This is for historical reasons—when npm was added in 2011, it was the
> only JavaScript package manager—and because it is the reference implementation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
purpose. This is for historical reasons — when `npm` was added in 2011, it was the
only JavaScript package manager — and because it is the reference implementation
```
